Got questions? Here is where you can get in touch:

* "Mailing list (Google Groups)":http://groups.google.com/group/cukes
* "Lighthouse (Issue tracker)":http://rspec.lighthouseapp.com/projects/16211-cucumber/overview (Bug reports, feature requests, patches)
* "IRC":irc://irc.freenode.net/cucumber ("log":http://irclogger.com/cucumber/)
* "Twitter":http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23cucumber
* "stackoverflow":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/cucumber

If you contact a developer directly you may not get an answer. If you do get an answer, the answer will most likely be cc'ed to the mailing list. Open source development also means open communication. 

h2. Before you consider asking

Try the latest released gem: 
<pre>gem update cucumber</pre>

If that doesn't help, try the latest beta gem: 
<pre>gem install aslakhellesoy-cucumber --source http://gems.github.com/</pre>

h2. Before you ask

It's impossible to give a meaningful answer to "Cucumber doesn't work - what's wrong?" -style questions. You have to tell us more.

Most people use Cucumber in more or less complex environments where a lot of other code is involved. Various web frameworks, many different ruby gems and your own code. There are many different ways you can "run features":running-features and many things that can go wrong - and quite often it has nothing to do with Cucumber at all.

So when you ask a question, please tell us:

* What cucumber version you're using: <code>cucumber --version</code>
* What other gems and versions you're using: <code>gem list</code>
* What command you ran
* What the output, error message and trace was: <code>--backtrace --verbose</code>
* What relevant code you have. Don't _describe_ your code, show it: "http://gist.github.com/":http://gist.github.com/
* And finally, tell us how to reproduce the error, as described on the [[Contributing]] page.
