h1. Migrating from RSpec Stories to Cucumber

Migrating from RSpec stories is not as hard as you might think. This guide is based on my experience from
migrating over a relatively large set of stories in a Rails project.

First, follow the Cucumber installation instructions for Rails. This should leave you with a features directory that looks like this:

<pre><code>+-features/
  +-steps/
    +-common_webrat.rb
    +-env.rb
</code></pre>

The env.rb loads the environment and is a good place to move any pertinent code from your old stories/helper.rb. For example, if you had been monkey-patching the Spec::Story::World module to add global story helpers you can move it’s contents directly into env.rb.

h2. Move a plain text story over

For example:

<pre><code>[git|svn] mv stories/foo.story features/foo.feature
</code></pre>

Try to run the feature you moved:

<pre><code>rake features
</code></pre>

At this point you should see a lot of yellow (pending steps). 

If you see a Cucumber::TreetopParser::Feature::SyntaxError, it may be because you have comments in your stories. RSpec Story Runner supports Ruby-style comments but Cucumber doesn't yet.

h2. Move over your step definitions

<pre><code>[git|svn] mv stories/steps/*.rb features/steps
</code></pre>

Remove the 'steps_for' declaration and corresponding block out of your step files, just leaving your Given, When, and Then step definitions.

Try to run the feature again:

<pre><code>rake features
</code></pre>

If you're like me - you haven't got your steps exactly in the directory that cucumber expects by default
(features/steps/*.rb), you may want to pass some options to the rake task. 

In my project I had rails-specific steps under steps/rails and watir-specific ones under steps/watir.
In order to run features without watir I had to do this:

<pre><code>Cucumber::Rake::Task.new(:rails) do |t|
  t.cucumber_opts = "--format pretty --require features/steps/env.rb --require features/steps/common_webrat.rb"
  t.step_pattern = "features/steps/rails"
end
</code></pre>

Later, I moved the env.rb and common_webrat.rb files under the steps/rails directory and removed the --require
arguments. This was much cleaner:

<pre><code>Cucumber::Rake::Task.new(:rails) do |t|
  t.cucumber_opts = "--format pretty"
  t.step_pattern = "features/steps/rails"
end
</code></pre>

h2. Resolving duplicate steps

In Cucumber you're not allowed to use a regexp or step name more than once in a step definition, so the
following will cause an error:

<pre><code>Given /Three (.*) mice/ do |disability|
end

Given /Three (.*) mice/ do |disability|
end
</code></pre>

In the project I migrated we actually had a couple of duplicates in different files, and it was nice to get rid of them.
We had to use our best judgment to decide which one to yank.

RSpec Story runner would not complain on such duplicates, which was a drawback.

h2. Resolving ambiguous steps

Consider these step definitions:

<pre><code>Given /Three (.*) mice/ do |disability|
end

Given /Three blind (.*)/ do |animal|
end
</code></pre>

And a plain text step:

<pre><code>Given Three blind mice</code></pre>

Which step definition would be picked here? RSpec Story runner would just pick one and not tell you that it discarded the other one.
Cucumber on the other hand will raise an error and tell you to fix the ambiguity.

In our project we encountered several of those. The recommended solution is to rename your steps and step definitions so 
they are no longer ambiguous. If you use regexps for step definitions (instead of strings) you have better control over this.

h2. Migrating your Story Listeners

With the story runner StoryListeners were being used to function as setup and teardown mechanisms.  Cucumber has Before and After methods, similar to RSpec's example framework, for setup and teardown between scenarios.  All global setup can be done in the env.rb file, and for global teardown the at_exit hook can be used in the env.rb file as well.

Here is a simple example of the conversion process.  Given this story listener:

<pre><code>
  class MyStoryListener
    def run_started(number_of_scenarios)
      # Global setup
      ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :test
      ActionMailer::Base.perform_deliveries = true
    end
    
    def scenario_started(story, scenario)
      # Scenario setup
      ActionMailer::Base.deliveries.clear
    end
    
    def scenario_succeeded(*args)
      # Scenario teardown
      Database.truncate_all
    end
    alias :scenario_pending :scenario_succeeded
    alias :scenario_failed :scenario_failed
    
    def run_ended
      # Global teardown
      TempFileManager.clean_up
    end
  end
  </code></pre>
  
  
  The resulting Cucumber conversion would look like this (in your env.rb file):
<pre><code>
  # Global setup
  ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :test
  ActionMailer::Base.perform_deliveries = true
  
  Before do
    # Scenario setup
    ActionMailer::Base.deliveries.clear
  end
  
  After do
    # Scenario teardown
    Database.truncate_all
  end
  
  at_exit do
    # Global teardown
    TempFileManager.clean_up
  end
</code></pre>
