We recommend you exercise your whole stack when using Cucumber. You *can* set up mocks with expectations in your [[Step Definitions]]. You can read more about how in "Bryan Helkamp's blog post":http://www.brynary.com/2009/2/3/cucumber-step-definition-tip-stubbing-time.

h2. RSpec 2.x

Starting with Cucumber 0.8.4 you can use all of RSpec's supported mocking frameworks (RSpec, Mocha, RR, Flexmock). Just <code>require 'cucumber/rspec/doubles'</code> ("Test-Double":http://www.martinfowler.com/bliki/TestDouble.html is a more generic term than mocks and stubs).

Check out Cucumber's "example":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/tree/master/examples/rspec_doubles/ to see how it's used.

*Be warned: Cucumber 0.8.4 is not yet in Rubygems, so to use cucumber/rspec/doubles you will need to install directly from "http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber.git":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber.git*

h2. RSpec 1.2.8-1.3.0

As of RSpec 1.2.8 if you need to use stubs within Cucumber and you are using the built in mocking/stubbing framework that ships with RSpec you simply need to <code>require 'spec/stubs/cucumber'</code> in your env.rb file. Note that message expectations (should_receive) are _not_ automatically verified.

Existing stubbing/mocking frameworks only support in-process stubbing & mocking, a new kid on the block "cross-stub":http://github.com/ngty/cross-stub provides simple cross process stubbing, which is useful when running cucumber with selenium, culerity, steam, etc. 

We recommend you only mock and stub things like Time and external services like OpenID etc.
