In some situations Scenario tables for a Scenario can get a little verbose. For example when you want:

* A Scenario table value to appear in multiple places in your Scenario steps. 
* To ignore some matches from the steps in the scenario table.

Scenario outlines allow us to more concisely express these examples through the use of a template with placeholders. 

Lets look at an example first:

<pre><code>Feature: Cucumber stock keeping
  In order to avoid interruption of cucumber consumption
  As a citizen of Cucumbia
  I want to know how many cucumbers I have left

  Scenario Outline: eating
    Given there are <start> cucumbers
    When I eat <eat> cucumbers
    Then I should have <left> cucumbers

    Examples:
      | start | eat | left |
      |  12   |  5  |  7   |
      |  20   |  5  |  15  |
</code></pre>

The Scenario outline steps provide a template which is never directly run. Only the Scenario table is ever run. 

We refer to the Scenario table below a Scenario outline as 'Examples' rather than 'More Examples'. We do this as the table represents all the test examples rather than additional examples.  

In the Scenario outline steps you can use placeholders. Placeholders must be contained within '<' '>'. For example:

<pre>Given <I'm a placeholder and I'm ok>
</pre>

The placeholders indicate that when the Examples row is run they should be substituted with real values from the Scenario table. If a placeholder name is the same as a column title in the Scenario table then this is the value that will replace it.

*{color:red}IMPORTANT: Your step definitions will never have to match a placeholder. They will need to match the values that will replace the placeholder*

So when running the first row of our example:

<pre><code>  Examples:
    | start | eat | left |
    |  12   |  5  |  7   |
</code></pre>

The scenario that is actually run is:

<pre><code>Scenario Outline: controlling order
  Given there are 12 cucumbers      # <start> replaced with 12
  When I eat 5 cucumbers            # <eat> replaced with 5
  Then I should have 7 cucumbers    # <left> replaced with 7
</code></pre>