Cucumber not ripe? Can't find your peeler? These are some common problems people have experienced. -And how to address them.

h2. Console output isn't right on Windows

Missing "a" characters in the output? Do your "æøå" characters print like garbled "Commodore 64 characters":http://kofler.dot.at/c64/? There are four steps to fix this.

*First* - make sure your .feature files are saved in "UTF-8":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8 format.

*Second* - add <code>require 'cucumber/formatters/unicode'</code> to your <code>features/support/env.rb</code> file. 

*Third* - set your command window's font to a font that has the characters you're outputting - for example _Upper Left corner icon menu -> Properties -> Font -> Lucida Grande_ - or another truetype (TT) font.

*Fourth* - in your command prompt, change the codepage:

<pre>chcp 1252</pre>

If you want to do this permanently - "look here":http://codesnippets.joyent.com/posts/show/414.
Now you should be able to get aæøå in your output on Windows.

Note that "codepage 1252":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows-1252 is not UTF-8 - it's essentially a superset of "ISO-8859-1":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO/IEC_8859-1. Ideally you'd set it to 65001, which is UTF-8, but this has the "unfortunate side effect":http://www.google.no/search?q=chcp+65001+bat&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&client=firefox-a of temporarily neutering all your computer's bat files so they cannot be executed (including cucumber.bat and rake.bat).

For more info, see "Lighthouse issue #81":http://rspec.lighthouseapp.com/projects/16211/tickets/81-windows-all-the-a-characters-in-the-output-have-gone-on-strike

h2. Changes made to models while running features with Selenium, Watir, or other solutions requiring a separate server process are not visible from within step definitions code

When you run Cucumber with Selenium or a similar solution two processes are required:  one for use by Cucumber/features and another one that's used by Selenium (the server process.) By default in Rails, all operations on the database are wrapped within a transaction, that is rolled back after running each scenario.

This feature, of using transactions, is only enabled when you have<code>Cucumber::Rails.use_transactional_fixtures</code> option in your <code>env.rb</code> file. To solve this problem, you need to comment out this option and handle table cleanup yourself, for example using the <code>Before</code> block. Please read [[Hooks]] to get an idea how to use it.

h2. Sqlite adapter throws SQLite3::BusyException when using Cucumber with Selenium

Cause and solution to this problem is exactly the same as with not being able to see changes made to database when using Cucumber with Selenium. In short, you need to comment out <code>Cucumber::Rails.use_transactional_fixtures</code> from your <code>env.rb</code> file.