It's strongly recommended that you get familiar with changes between your current version and the version you're upgrading to. You can always find the changes in "History.txt":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/blob/master/History.txt

h2. 0.7.x

If you're upgrading from 0.6.x or earlier to 0.7.x you will find that feature file parsing is 50-100 times faster, but it's also a little different. You may have to change your existing features slightly. As of 0.7.0:

* Each feature file *must* start with a <code>Feature:</code> keyword (or a translation in one of the [[Spoken languages]]). Run <code>cucumber --i18n help</code> and <code>cucumber --i18n LANG</code> for details.
** You may have tags above the <code>Feature:</code> line
** You may have comments above the tags or the <code>Feature:</code> line
* You can now put tags above <code>Examples</code>. This gives you more flexibility with <code>--tags</code> and tagged [[Hooks]].
* You are now allowed to have comments between table rows.
* You can't have comments at the end of a line # like this
** # But you can still have tags at the beginning of a line

h2. Ruby on Rails

As of Cucumber 0.5.0 you should also install/upgrade the <code>cucumber-rails</code> gem. After doing that you must also run <code>ruby script/generate cucumber</code>. See cucumber-rails' "History.txt":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber-rails/blob/master/History.txt for details, especially the upgrading instructions that are described for the 0.2.0 release of cucumber-rails.